welcome back to recap in minutes in
today's video we will be going through a
1995 american fictional film called
outbreak
this movie focuses on a fictional virus
carried by a host monkey from africa and
start to infect the whole population
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the story begins in 1967 during the
kinshasa war and republic of congo
formerly known as sire in a mercenary
camp we see the arrival of two men in
protective mask they came in response to
a viral disease that creeped into the
camp leaving numerous soldiers sick and
dead in less than 24 hours
they collect blood samples from an
infected soldier and return back to the
helicopter where one of the men orders
the other named billy to get a plane to
the camp very soon
within a short period of time a plane is
seen approaching the camp the soldiers
think it's for supplies but air drops a
thing which blast the whole camp leaving
the camp in ashes the two men on mass
did that so that the virus may be
stopped from spread now the movie takes
us further to 28 years after the
incident showing colonel daniel a
virologist doctor working for the u.s
army
bathing his dogs he receives a call
which he tells the situation of a level
four viral disease outbreak in sayer
with a high mortality
in the next scene daniel goes to his
recently divorced wife robbie to leave
their dogs with her as he prepare to
leave for zayer
before he leaves they have a small
marital quarrel
the next day he is prepared to go to
zaire he meets billy now a brigadier
general and daniels superior officer to
get more inside information about the
situation in sayer
on the plane his crew major casey and a
new recruit made your salt
colonel daniel interrogates sought to
know whether he has been on the field
but finds out this will be his first
time they arrive in sayer a village
where this virus broke out they
discovers corpses of the villagers lying
on the floor they are shocked because
the situation has gone worse
they enters into a building where they
see dying mothers fathers and children
at the last stage of the disease
seeing this major salt freaks out he
cannot hold it and takes off his helmet
due to risk to the exposure to the virus
colonel daniel asked to isolate him but
a random man appears and tells them the
virus do not spread through the air he
happens to be a doctor
he tells daniel the whole village is
dead the virus kills in two or three
days and the mortality is one hundred
percent
it is revealed about the patient zero a
man who worked with a white man to build
a road into kinshasa returns to the
village sick and drinks from this well
from there it spread through the entire
village
after gathering information they
returned to the united states daniel
speaks to billy about the virus because
he fears that the virus will spread but
billy dismisses him back in zaire a
white-headed capuchin monkey that's host
to the virus
is captured and smuggled by a chinese
man into the country on a ship
we then see a man jimbo a worker at the
animal testing laboratory steal a monkey
from the laboratory and bribes his way
out of the place to sell a monkey on the
black market
on his way the next day to sell the
monkey in his car the monkey spits water
into his mouth unaware he is infected
he fails to sell a monkey to a pet store
owner at the coaster california town of
cedar creek the monkey scratches the pet
store owner and he gets wounded blood
injury causing him to be infected too
he realizes the monkey is now useless he
then releases the monkey in the woods
outside of the nearby community of
palisades while testing this sample of
the virus in the us army high technology
laboratory colonel daniel and his team
discovers how fatal the virus is it
spreads rapidly by contact and can kills
within 24 hours
this same virus spread 28 years ago
major general donald meets general billy
they were both the masked men that had
the infected camp wiped out 28 years ago
to keep this virus as secrets
donald asked billy to keep daniel out of
the case so he won't mess up the
biological weapon they have been working
on for over the past 30 years
the next scene shows jimbo on a flight
to boston sitting on the plane he begins
to develop the signs and symptoms of the
virus at his arrival in the airport he
meets with his girlfriend and they kiss
not realizing his infected moment right
after he started acting strangely while
his girlfriend screen for help at the
same time the pet store owner at the
town cedar creek feels so sick and
collapses he is rushed into the town's
hospital where the doctor tries to
resuscitate him same time a laboratory
technician withdraws his blood for
testing while running the test he
accidentally breaks the vial and the
blood sample splashes all over to his
face
obviously he is also infected after this
the worst things that can happens to
humanity begins
robbie daniel's ex-wife and also a
doctor at the center for disease control
and prevention cdc
upon hearing the case in boston in which
the doctors there can't figure it out
she moves to the town and try to get
relevant information from jimbo but
unfortunately he dies
she takes a post-mortem test where she
discovers all of jimbo's internal organs
are liquefied
she immediately notifies her ex-husband
daniel the same lab technician goes to a
movie cinema where his health state goes
bad he coughs into the air as a result
virus spreads to other people
he goes outside to get water and he
falls and then hospitalized
right after the whole town of cedar
creek begins to show signs and symptoms
and rush to the town's hospital
the hospital begin to fill up the
disease is spreading rapidly
general donald orders general billy on
the phone to quarantine the town and
impose martial law on the cedar creek
residents and also create a media
blackout to prevent the world from
knowing the actual truth about the virus
to protect their selfish interest
they have the whole town filled with
military securing the perimeter of a
small town of 2600 people
against general billy order colonel
daniel's team arrived the town's
hospital
he meets with robbie after he has showed
where the infected patients have been
isolated then he has called for a
patient who has been admitted in the
hospital before the outbreak
he is also develops the disease
apparently with no contact with an
infected
daniel discovers the man contacted the
disease by airborne as a result from the
roof vent connecting the man's room to
the isolated room this makes him
understands that the virus has mutated
and can now be contacted through the air
after a series of contact tracing they
come to understand an animal host that
has the virus must be carrying the
antibodies to the virus so robbie visits
the pet store and discover a sick monkey
realizing it's just an infected monkey
not the animal host they are looking for
this monkey get infected by eating the
monkey host banana when jimbo brought it
to the store the situation of the city
has gone worse and there is disturbance
among the people
some of the residents try to escape but
the army interferes and does not allow
anyone to step out the town's perimeter
in order to prevent this epidemic
further general billy considers
providing an anti-serum called e1101
because he and general donald had worked
with the virus in the past they
preserved the virus for use as a
biological weapon not knowing the virus
would somehow breaks out the virus has
mutated the antiserum doesn't have an
effect on the patient
daniel realizes that his superior were
aware of the virus before the outbreak
he questions billy but lied it's an
experimental antiserum from a virology
lab
following due to this mutated virus that
can be transmitted by air the army
orders everyone to stay indoors and tell
them if they have symptoms they should
indicate by hanging a white cloth on
their front door the army comes seeing
the white cloth and brings the infected
people in for their treatment
on the other side daniel's partner major
casey is experimenting in the laboratory
his suit accidentally tears and his
protection is in doubt but he does not
mention this to anyone even when robbie
asks him
soon while working he collapses and he's
rushed to the hospital while robbie
tries to inject him she accidentally
pierced herself causing her to be
infected too
robbie flees the scene and daniel goes
after her knowing she is infected he
goes to confront billy and then he
discovers the president has authorized
general donald on operation clean sweet
tonight a plan to contain the virus by
bombing cedar creek to prevent the
viruses expansion to pandemic proportion
returning back to the hospital major
salt tells daniel he gets a call from
the animal testing laboratory saying a
security let jimbo smuggled an animal
out of the facility and it came in on a
ship from africa
to prevent daniel from finding a cure
general donald orders him to be arrested
for carrying the virus
daniel escapes he a major salt fly a
helicopter to the ship which carried the
monkey
he has shown the corpse of the chinese
man who first made contact with the host
monkey he'd die from the virus
daniel discovers the picture of the
monkey
he then goes to a media station and
hijacked during a recording he asks
people to contact him if anyone sees the
monkey on the picture
a palisades resident mrs jeffries
realizes that her daughter kate has been
playing with the monkey and makes a call
daniel and salt arrives at the jeffries
house they make skate coaxes the monkey
where salt tranquilizes it when billy
learns from daniel about the monkey
capture he delays the bombing on their
return flight daniel and salt are chased
by donald in another helicopter
soul fires two rockets into the trees to
deceive him thinking that they crashed
once back in cedar creek salt mixes the
monkeys antibodies to create an
anti-serum although casey is dead they
gave robbie the end to serum and order
the laboratory to make more for the
whole town
donald returns to base and resumes
operation clean sweep refusing to listen
to billy
robbie gets better at salt reports the
plane is in the air coming to drop the
bomb
daniels and salt fly their helicopter
directly into the path of the bomber's
approach to its target daniel persuades
the bomber's flight crew not to drop the
bomb but because they are trained not to
listen against an order it took them a
while to realize what they are about to
do and with billy's help the bomber's
crew detonate the bomb over the water
and spare the town
before donald can order another bombing
billy relieves him of command and orders
his arrest at the end daniel and robbie
reconcile as cedar creek's residents are
cured thanks for watching please don't
forget to subscribe and turn on the
notification bell to get noticed when a
new video is uploaded